# Boxed_p1

## Project Description
Boxed is an ORM tool for Java that allows for a simplified and SQL-free interaction with relational databases. 
The primary feature is its ability to insert, search, and retrieve your java objects to and from a database. It generates
SQL calls and parses its return sets to spare the developer from needing a strong understanding of either SQL or JDBC. 
Additionally it provides a basic Connection Pooling service to simplify the creation of user sessions. 

## Technologies Used
Java            - version 8
JUnit           - version 4.12
PostgreSQL      - versino 42.2.12
Mockito         - version 3.3.3
Jacoco          - version 0.7.7.2

## Features
Boxed Features:
- SQL TRansaction builders that support a wide variety of SQL statements including all CRUD statements and a significant number of WHERE clauses.
- Connection pooling for the creation of multiple sessions.
- Simple and highly abstracted interface for client applications.

Future Releases:
- Add support for aggregate functions.
- Expand automated query building via use of Reflections on users imported classes.

## Getting Started
Currently the project is not in the maven repository. To include in your own project it must be downloaded and installed to your local .m2 file where it can then be inlcuded as a dependency to future projects using :
        <dependency>
            <groupId>com.revature</groupId>
            <artifactId>Boxed</artifactId>
            <version>1.0</version>
        </dependency>
        
Included in your project should be a .properties file that resembles the following:

url=jdbc:postgresql://\<HOST\>:\<PORT\>/\<DATABASE_NAME\> <br/>
admin-usr= \<USERNAME\> <br/>
admin-pw=\<PASSWORD\> <br/>
current-schema=\<SCHEMA\> <br/>
entity-location= \<ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_DESIRED_CLASS\>,\<ABSOLUTE_PATH_TO_DESIRED_CLASS\>, ...
  
 The classes that get included in your .properties file as entity containers should be annotated using the following annotations:
<ul> 
  <li> @Entity : at the top of any class that represents a table in your database</li>
  <li> @Column : at the top of any filed that represents a column in your database</li>
  <li> @CredentialsClass : at the top of the class that holds login information </li>
  <li> @Credential : at the top of the fields used as username and password </li>
  <li> @Generated : at the top of any field that is generated by the database and should be skipped durring inserts</li>
</ul>

## Usage
There is one client facing class:

BlackBox: 
  - Allows you to get a new connection and set currentConnection
  - Allows you to get a ResultSet 'Summary' that shows what the raw result set holds
  - Allows you to retrieve or insert entire objects to avoid creating custom transactions. 
  - Allows you to delete oject from the database
  
Some classes that might come in handy to explore include the TransactionBuilder classes which can be leveraged to craft
more custom SQL calls:
  - Delete Builder
  - Insert Builder
  - QueryBuilder
  - UpdateBuilder
  - WhereBuilder

## License
